Solutions are widely recognized as an effective response to increasing competition and diminishing differentiation  of  core goods in  business-to-business  (B2B)  markets  (Eggert  et al. 2014; Ulaga and Reinartz 2011; Storbacka, Polsa, and SÛaÛaksjÛarvi  2011).  As  customized  and  integrated  combina- tions of goods and services, solutions have the potential to create superior results within customersÕ business application (Tuli, Kohli, and Bharadwaj 2007). Compared to separate goods and services, solutions are more difficult to imitate, require deeper customer insights, and may therefore repre- sent more sustainable sources of competitive advantage for suppliers facing cutthroat competition in global B2B markets (Shankar, Berry, and Dotzel 2009).  Salespeople play an important role in making solutions happen. As boundary spanners, they manage the interface between the supplier and the customer firm (Rapp  et  al.  2017; Singh et al. 2017). Given that solution sales processes differ substantially from traditional, goods-centric B2B sales processes (Tuli, Kohli, and Bharadwaj 2007; Ulaga and Loveland 2014), extant research agrees that successfully sell- ing solutions  places  new  demands  on  salespeople  (Evans  et al. 2012; Ulaga and Reinartz 2011). Yet, salespeopleÕs changing roles and responsibilities for the enactment of cus- tomer solutions are not well understood (Blocker et al. 2012; Evans et al. 2012; Panagopoulos, Rapp, and Ogilvie 2017).
Accordingly, scholars have called for further research on the resources and competencies required by salespeople when selling customer solutions (Panagopoulos, Rapp, and Ogilvie 2017; Ulaga 2018; Ulaga and Kohli 2018).  The role of salespeople is especially paramount in  the  early phases of solution selling. During these phases, cus- tomer specifications are often ill-defined (Ulaga  and  Loveland 2014) and Òcustomers frequently are not fully cog- nizant of their business needs and cannot easily  articulate them to a supplierÓ (Tuli, Kohli, and Bharadwaj 2007, p. 6). Given that requirement definition and customization of a companyÕs offerings build the foundation for future solution selling success (Tuli, Kohli, and Bharadwaj 2007), it requires proactive salespeople who can find execution gaps in their customersÕ business processes. Hence, salespeople play a piv- otal role by sensing customer problems that the customer is not aware of or cannot express  and  crafting  offerings  that can solve these problems (Tuli, Kohli, and Bharadwaj 2007). We thus identify salespeopleÕs value opportunity recognition competence (hereafter abbreviated as VOR) as a critical pro- ficiency in the early phases of solution selling. Building on Bonney and Williams (2009) seminal conceptual work  on  this construct, we define it as the salespersonÕs ability to identify value creation opportunities in customersÕ business that are captured by appropriate combinations of goods and

services that enhance customersÕ value-in-use. By empirically investigating salespeopleÕs VOR, including its antecedents, contingencies, and outcomes, we seek to expand current perspectives on solution selling and shed light on salesper-  son requirements in the early stages of solution selling. In particular, we want to identify individual resources and organizational work environment characteristics that enable salespeople to recognize value opportunities in solution sell- ing contexts.  Evidently, not every salesperson possesses the resources required to cope with these challenges and is able to develop  a high level of VOR. Yet, while it is generally accepted by academics and managers alike that solution selling requires     a new type of salesperson (Murtha, Bharadwaj, and Van den Bulte 2009), extant literature provides limited  insights  into the specific salesperson resources required for recognizing solution opportunities in B2B markets. Against this back- ground, there is a pressing need for more research that pro-  vides managers with actionable guidance on how to foster VOR among their existing salesforce and  on  whom to  hire  to strengthen their growing solution business.  To investigate the resources required for building sales- personsÕ VOR, we draw on employee capital  literature (Wang, Saboo, and Grewal 2015), which is regularly used to explain inter-individual differences in employee competen- cies and behaviors (Kor and Sundaramurthy 2009). Using multi-level data from B2B salespeople and sales managers,  we investigate the relevance of four salesperson resources: customer knowledge and technical knowledge (representing salespeopleÕs human capital) as well as  customer  relations and internal relations (representing salespeopleÕs social cap- ital). In addition to probing into the direct effects of these antecedents to VOR, we also test how these resources com- bine to build VOR and  whether  they  are  contingent  on  work environment characteristics. Finally, we confirm  the  link between VOR and salesperson performance, thereby showing the importance of building VOR in B2B markets.  Our study contributes by addressing several gaps in the  B2B solution literature. First, we show that VOR contributes to better selling performance in solution selling contexts, above and beyond traditional selling concepts (i.e., adaptive selling and customer-oriented selling). Thereby, we contrib- ute to the question what constitutes a successful salesperson  in todayÕs complex  solution  selling  environments  (Blocker et al. 2012; Evans et al. 2012). Our findings also concur with the assumptions of the service-dominant logic, according to which the transition to solution selling shifts the focus from value-in-exchange to value-in-use (Friend and Malshe 2016; Vargo and Lusch 2008). The importance of VOR for selling performance inherently reflects the need for salespeople to move away from selling goods to selling value-in-use oppor- tunities for customers (Sheth and Sharma 2008).  Second, our study extends current research on  the  spe- cific resources required for recognizing solution opportuni- ties in B2B markets and tests some key assumptions made     in conceptual and qualitative papers. In detail, we find that customer knowledge and technical knowledge both enhance salespeopleÕs VOR, but customer knowledge does so
significantly more than technical knowledge. In addition, salespeopleÕs relations within their own  organization  and  with key stakeholders in customersÕ organizations emerge as significant drivers of VOR. These results have important implications for the selection and training of salespeople.  Third, we account for potential substitution effects  between the different resources, thereby addressing the ques- tion whether VOR necessitates salespeople to similarly invest in all types of resources. Our results indicate that salespeople with restricted technical knowledge can still develop a high level of VOR when they have extensive  internal  relations, but customer knowledge is indispensable and  should  be  a  key selection criterion when hiring new salespeople for solu- tion businesses.  Finally, we also identify work environment characteristics as important contingency variables, thereby highlighting the important role of sales management in VOR development. While a high level of formalization turned out to be a dou- ble-edged sword, transformational leadership has positive effects only. These findings lend important insights for the design of work environments that enable the formation of VOR. In summary, our research  offers  novel  insights  into the complex interplay of the antecedents and contingencies    of salespeopleÕs VOR and its performance implications  in  B2B markets, offering much needed guidance to managers facing the challenge of implementing solution strategies.  The remainder of this article is structured as follows: In   the next section, we review prior literature on solution sell-  ing and opportunity recognition. Then we develop our con- ceptual model, building on employee capital theory, and discuss our hypotheses. After we describe our  research design, we present our findings and implications for market- ing theory and practice. We conclude with an outline of the limitations of our study and some research avenues.Conceptual backgroundLiterature review on solution sellingExtant research offers a substantial body of knowledge on solutions, particularly from an organizational strategy per- spective (e.g. Colm, Ordanini, and Bornemann 2020; Eggert  et al. 2014; Nezami, Worm, and Palmatier 2018; Storbacka, Polsa,  and  SÛaÛaksjÛarvi  2011;  Worm  et  al.  2017).  But  even  as we gain greater understanding of the organizational antece-  dents and consequences of B2B solutions, we lack insights into the antecedents and consequences of solution selling at the salesperson level. To date, only a handful of studies has explored solutions from the salesperson perspective, as sum- marized in Table 1. This void is surprising, considering salespeopleÕs central position for implementing organiza- tional strategies in general (Noble and Mokwa 1999) and identifying promising business opportunities in particular (Evans et al. 2012).  Extant research on solution selling provides important insights in three areas. First, prior research makes important attempts in defining the concept of solutions and identifying the central processes inherent to solution selling. Solutions  are conceptualized as joint supplierÐcustomer processes for
Table 1. Research on the role of salespeople in B2B solution selling.ArticleFocus of ResearchKey FindingsTheoretical FoundationMethods and DataFriend andUnderstand vendorÕs key skillsFrom the customersÕ perspective,Ecosystem researchExplorative, qualitative
Malshe (2016)Koponen, Julkunen, and Asai (2019)Ulaga and Loveland (2014)
to craft customer solutions within an ecosystem from the customerÕs perspectiveExplore salespersonsÕ sales communication competency in a solution contextUnderstand personality traits of high-performing salespeople in hybrid offering settings
vendors ability to develop and implement solutions within an ecosystem is guided by four skills: diversity sensitivity, multipoint probing, orchestration, and stability preservation.Conceptualizes sales communication competence with four components: behavioral, affective, and cognitive communication, as well as sales acumen dimensions.When selling hybrid offerings, high- performing salespeople need strong learning orientation, customer service orientation, and intrinsic motivation
General solution and personal selling researchGeneral service and personal selling research
research: N 117 customer interviews across 59 vendorsExplorative, qualitative research: N 39 interviews with sales educators and salespersonsExplorative, qualitative research: N 38 interviews with C-level managers among industrial B2B suppliers
Ulaga and Kohli (2018)	Identify salespersonsÕ roles insteering the solution selling process
Salespeople have two fundamentalroles: reducing uncertainty and fostering adaptation in the sales process
General service,organizational buying, and personalselling research
Conceptual research
Panagopoulos, Rapp, and Ogilvie (2017)
Conceptualize salesperson solution selling involvement and study its effect on selling performance and boundary conditions
Solution selling involvement is a second order construct that predicts selling performance, contingent on sales unitÕs cooperation with other units, broadness of product portfolio, and closeness of customer relationships
Contingency framework and solution research
Qualitative pre-study and three quantitative studies, including multisource data from an ICT firm(N 120 N 38), across-industry seller survey (N 247 N 58), and acustomer survey among industrial supplierÕs customers (N ? 185)
This study	Investigate the antecedents and contingencies that enable salespeople to recognize value opportunities insolution selling
Conceptualizes salespeopleÕs value opportunity recognition competence (VOR) and confirms its impact on selling performance. Customer knowledge is the strongest driver of VOR. Formalization and transformational leadership foster the impact of customer relations on VOR.
Employee capital theory and solution research
Quantitative research: Multilevel survey among 799 salespeople and their respective sales managers from 29 business units

solving customer problems (Tuli, Kohli, and  Bharadwaj 2007), with four distinct processes: (1) customer require-  ment definition, (2) product customization and integration,(3) deployment of solution offers, and (4) post-deployment support. Contrasting solution selling with traditional goods selling, research further identities important specificities of solution selling, such as a stronger focus on co-creation rela- tive to persuasion, fuzzier solution specifications, higher net- work complexity, and stronger relationship  orientation  (Ulaga and Loveland 2014). These solution specifics entail  certain roles and activities for salespeople during solution selling. Depending on the respective solution selling phase,  salespeople primarily need to (1) understand customersÕ businesses and identify solution opportunities, (2) craft solu- tions that fit customer needs, (3) orchestrate between  sup- plier and customer stakeholders, and (4) maintain  a  continuous relationship with customers (Friend and Malshe 2016; Panagopoulos et al. 2017; Sheth and Sharma 2008; Ulaga and Kohli 2018).Second,  extant  research  agrees  on  the  fact  that solutionselling poses specific requirements for salespeople and sales management. Specifically, prior research provides first insights  on  the  attitudes,  competencies,  and  behaviors  that
might facilitate solution selling among salespeople. Relying  on qualitative interviews with 38 executives in industrial supply firms, Ulaga and Loveland (2014) distill important personality traits of high-performing salespeople for solution selling, such as learning orientation and intrinsic motivation. Koponen, Julkunen, and Asai (2019) conceptualize salespeo- pleÕs communication competence in a solution selling con- text, building on insights from 39 interviews with sales educators and salespersons. In a conceptual  article,  Ulaga  and Kohli (2018) further elaborate how salespeople can  reduce uncertainty and foster adaptation in solution settings. Moreover, prior research acknowledges that solution selling requires sales management to ensure a proper work environ- ment for solution selling. For example, Panagopoulos, Rapp, and Ogilvie (2017) reveal solution selling to be more effect- ive when cross-functional cooperation among coworkers exists. Friend and Malshe (2016) further identify orchestra- tion of different activities and processes and operational integration with the customer as important  organizational skills for selling solutions in business markets.Third, one study sheds light on the consequences of solu-tion selling for salespeople. Panagopoulos, Rapp, and Ogilvie (2017)  find  that  solution  selling  involvement  can   enhance
sales performance, an effect that  is  particularly pronounced for firms with large product portfolios, strong cross-functional cooperation, and strong customerÐsupplier relationships.  Against this backdrop, we identify three important  research gaps. First, most salesperson-focused solution stud- ies have been explorative or conceptual, preventing empirical generalization. Only few empirical studies (cf. Panagopoulos, Rapp, and Ogilvie 2017) investigate activities, behaviors, or competencies geared toward solution selling with a quantita- tive research design. As such, more quantitative research on solutions is needed that could help managers to decide more systematically on the right salespeople and work environ- ment that support their solution initiatives.  Second, no research has specifically focused on the crit-  ical first phases of the solution selling  process, a  gap  that  has also been noted by Panagopoulos, Rapp, and Ogilvie (2017, p. 162f.) who called for closer research attention for the Òrequirements definitionÓ and Òsolution customizationÓ phases. To shed light on the initial phases of the solution selling process, we focus on salespersonÕs value opportunity recognition competence (VOR), which is a central compe- tence for salespeople to be able to navigate  these  early  phases of solution selling. While opportunity recognition is already assumed to contribute to solution effectiveness and efficiency (Bonney and Williams 2009), it has not yet been tested empirically.Third, extant literature provides limited insight into rele-vant antecedents and contingencies of salespeopleÕs compe- tencies in solution selling. In this vein, Panagopoulos, Rapp, and Ogilvie (2017, 162f.) suggest that Òresearchers should examine antecedents É such as salesperson knowledge bro- kering or tacit knowledge transfer skillsÓ. To  fill this  void,  we investigate the effect of different salesperson  resources and work environment characteristics  for  strengthening  VOR, thereby acknowledging the important role of both salespeople and sales managers during solution selling initiatives.SalespersonsÕ value opportunity recognition competenceThe concept of opportunity recognition  originally  stems  from the area of entrepreneurship. In this context, research-  ers regard opportunity recognition Ð understood as the identification of situations where existing or new resources can be creatively deployed in a more efficient and/or effect- ive mannerÐ as the central ability of successful entrepreneurs (Eckhardt and Shane 2003; Kirzner 1997; Shane and Venkataraman 2000). Recognizing the parallels between entrepreneurship and solution selling, Bonney and Williams (2009) first introduced the concept of salespeopleÕs oppor- tunity recognition in the context of solution selling. In solu- tion selling, salespeople initially need to Òinvest time and  effort into identifying a customerÕs problem and then con- figuring available resources in manner that addresses  the  focal problemÓ (Bonney and Williams 2009). Hence, similar  to entrepreneurs, solution salespeople must be able to bring  together value creation opportunities in a customersÕ  busi- ness   operation   with   appropriate   resources   of   their  firm
(Bonney and Williams 2009). Mirroring this idea, we define salespeopleÕs value opportunity recognition competence (VOR) as a salespersonÕs ability to identify value creation opportunities in customersÕ business that are captured by appropriate combinations of goods and services that enhance customersÕ value-in-use. As such, VOR addresses salespeo- pleÕs ability to enact the first two phases of the solution sell- ing process.  In their seminal article, Bonney and Williams (2009) identify three cognitive processes that collectively impact a salespersonÕs ability to recognize opportunities: awareness, problem-solution discovery, and evaluation. By focusing on these cognitive processes, the authors capture the cognitive roots of salespeopleÕs variance in opportunity recognition, thereby contributing to the question what constitutes a sales- personÕs VOR. In contrast to these authors, we instead focus on the outcome of these cognitive processes, which is the salespeopleÕs ability to actually recognize value opportunities in solution selling. By investigating relevant antecedents and contingencies as well as outcomes of VOR, we  want  to  extent prior research on VOR and understand (a) what salespeople require to develop this competence and (b) how    it impacts their selling performance.Hypotheses developmentConceptual modelWe build on employee capital theory to understand the antecedents and contingencies of salespeopleÕs VOR. Employee capital theory provides a valuable lens in this con- text, given its importance in explaining inter-individual dif- ferences in various competencies and  behaviors  of  employees (Kor and Sundaramurthy 2009). According to employee capital theory, people generally can access two  types of resources: human capital and social capital (Li and Zhang 2007). Human capital (or intellectual capital) denotes individual knowledge, typically developed through educa- tion, training, or experience (Adner and Helfat  2003;  Kor  and Sundaramurthy 2009). Social capital (or relational cap- ital) refers to resources that people can Òpotentially mobilize via their social relationsÓ (Adler and Kwon 2002, 27).  Researchers differentiate internal from external social capital (Adler and Kwon 2002). Internal social capital derives from linkages within the focal group, such as an organization, whereas external social capital stems from linkages to others, outside the focal group, such as customers (Adler and Kwon 2002; Adner and Helfat 2003).  As our conceptual model in Figure 1 shows, we investi- gate four individual resources that might affect their VOR: customer knowledge and technical knowledge (both related   to human capital) and customer relations and internal rela- tions (both related to their social capital). We  also account  for interaction effects across these resources, with the recog- nition that human and social capital are not independent (Hargadon and Sutton 1997). Moreover, we investigate the potential moderating impacts of two important work envir- onment characteristics (formalization and transformational leadership). Finally, for completeness, we consider the
Figure 1. Conceptual model.
relationship of salespeopleÕs VOR with their selling perform- ance (see Figure 1).Effect of salesperson resources on VORHuman and social capital both should promote the develop- ment of salespeopleÕs VOR. Human capital provides a foun- dation for VOR development, in that people build new competencies by enhancing their current knowledge or recombining it in new ways (Kogut and  Zander  1992).  In this sense, the human capital that an individual salesperson possesses constitutes a foundation for future competence development. Prior research identifies customer and tech-  nical knowledge as particularly critical types of human cap- ital for salespeopleÕs ability to recognize value opportunities (Tuli, Kohli, and Bharadwaj 2007; Ulaga and Loveland 2014; Verbeke, Dietz, and Verwaal 2011). Customer knowledge reflects salespeopleÕs understanding of customersÕ business models, processes, and goals; technical knowledge is the extent to which salespeople are knowledgeable about the specifications and applications of the various goods and services offered by their company (Behrman and Perreault 1982). With detailed customer knowledge,  salespeople  should be better able to define customersÕ solution require- ments and conceive how a specific offering might facilitate value creation (Blocker et al. 2012; Tuli, Kohli, and  Bharadwaj 2007; Ulaga and Loveland 2014). Extensive tech- nical knowledge also is required to recognize value opportu- nities for solutions, which by definition combine  and  integrate various goods and services, tailored to customersÕ needs (Ulaga and Loveland 2014).  
We also predict that VOR development profits from salespeopleÕs social capital (Nonaka 1994; Tsai 2001). Solution selling is complex  and  beyond  the  capabilities of  a single person  (Moon  and  Armstrong  1994;  Schmitz 2013). Oftentimes, it demands knowledge and resources controlled by other people distributed both outside  and inside the organization (Storbacka 2011), which  salespeo- ple might access through their customer and internal rela- tions (Tuli, Kohli, and  Bharadwaj  2007).  Customer  relations indicate the extent to which a salesperson has  access to relevant decision makers within customersÕ organizations (Palmatier 2008); internal relations  refer  to the salespersonÕs access to relevant actors within his or her own company. The former  enable  salespeople  Òto  define  the customerÕs requirements in a more complete  and  nuanced mannerÓ (Tuli, Kohli, and Bharadwaj  2007,  12)  and craft a solution that reflects heterogeneous customer needs (Friend and Malshe 2016). The latter instead enables salespeople to recognize the specific competencies and responsibilities of other members of their organization, so they can identify and ask the right people for unique  information and support, which they can leverage to rec- ognize value opportunities (Bolander  et  al.  2015;  Tsai 2001; Ulaga and Loveland 2014).  Therefore, we predict that all four salesperson resources drive their ability to recognize value opportunities in solu-  tion selling.H1: There are positive relationships of salespeopleÕs (a) customer knowledge, (b) technical knowledge, (c) customer relations, and(d)  internal  relations   with   their   value   opportunity recognition competence.
Interaction among salesperson resourcesFurther building on employee capital literature, we suggest  that salespeopleÕs social capital might substitute for their human capital due to the redundancy of information  (Boxman, De Graaf, and Flap 1991; Kor and Sundaramurthy 2009). In other words, knowledge from  relational  sources  can substitute individual knowledge to the extent that it pro- vides equivalent information on relevant aspects (Schwab 2007). First, customer relations may substitute for salespeo- pleÕs customer knowledge. By using their links to key stake- holders within the customer organization, salespeople gain early access to unique information that helps them develop effective solutions (Gonzalez, Claro, and Palmatier 2014).  The access to relevant, up-to-date information may diminish the informational benefits of established customer know-  ledge for developing effective solutions. For example, sales- people with strong customer relations might identify value creation opportunities in customerÕs business processes, even  if they lack deep individual knowledge about those proc-  esses, because they attain the required insights from cus- tomer representatives with whom they collaborate  with.  Thus, salespeopleÕs access to relevant decision makers within customersÕ organizations should reduce the contributions of individual customer knowledge to their ability to effectively recognize value opportunities.H2a: Customer relations moderate the  relationship  of  salespeopleÕs customer knowledge with their value opportunity recognition competence, such that the relationship is weaker  when salespeople have strong customer relations.  Second, internal relations may substitute for salespeopleÕs technical knowledge in terms of building VOR. Extensive technical knowledge is most relevant when salespeople have few internal relations, but its informational benefits decrease  if salespeople can rely on relevant actors within their organ- ization who provide unique, pertinent information about possible specifications and applications of the companyÕs offerings (Tuli, Kohli, and Bharadwaj 2007). For example, salespeople with strong internal relations are more likely to successfully craft appropriate combinations of goods and services that enhance customersÕ value-in-use, even if they lack deep individual knowledge on the  different  parts, because they can access experts in these areas. Consequently, we posit that strong internal relations decrease the import- ance of salespeopleÕs own technical knowledge for VOR.H2b: Internal relations moderate the relationship of salespeopleÕs technical knowledge with their value opportunity recognition competence, such that the relationship is weaker  when  salespeople have strong internal relations.Moderating effects of work environment characteristicsAccording to employee capital literature, leveraging social capital requires the right work environment as an organiza- tional enabler (Andrews 2010). The work environment determines the opportunity and ability to which salespeople can access and apply information from their social networks (Burt 1997). Research has pointed to the importance of
structure and leadership as relevant work characteristics (MacKenzie, Podsakoff, and Rich 2001; Tuli, Kohli, and Bharadwaj 2007). We consider one core characteristic from each group, determined according to their academic rele- vance and management potential. Formalization is an important structural element of organizations that governs their knowledge exchange processes (Tsai 2001); it has been studied particularly in the context of organizational intelli- gence generation and dissemination (e.g. Kohli and Jaworski 1990). With transformational leadership, we include a cen- tral measure of leadership behavior (Berson et  al.  2006),  with confirmed influences on learning (Vera and Crossan 2004) and the development of selling skills and capabilities (Martin and Bush 2006).FormalizationFormalization refers to the extent to which the company proscribes sales activities (Khandwalla 1977). When formal- ization is high, firms have well-established rules, procedures, and instructions that guide employeesÕ behaviors  (Jansen,  Van Den Bosch, and Volberda 2006). These rules might spe- cify the roles and responsibilities of different units and func- tions, outline reporting structures, or govern information sharing across units (Tuli, Kohli, and Bharadwaj 2007).  We predict a negative moderating effect of formalization on the impact of customer relations on VOR. Because for- malization encourages known responses to environmental phenomena (Daft and Lengel 1986), it likely hinders creativ- ity and the integration of novel, external information, so salespeople may be less responsive to information from out- side sources, such as customers. In addition, customers use different frames of reference, and it is more difficult for salespeople to interpret and  understand  this  information when they experience high formalization, because the infor- mation might not fit easily into pre-established categories. With increasing reliance on rules and procedures, salespeo- ple become less likely to deviate from their frame of refer- ence and effectively integrate customersÕ perspective.H3a: Formalization moderates the relationship of salespeopleÕs customer relations with their value opportunity recognition competence, such that the relationship is weaker when their companiesÕ processes are highly formal.  In contrast, formalization should strengthen the relation- ship between internal relations and VOR, because it can promote and facilitate knowledge transfers across different stakeholders within organizations (Nonaka 1994). Through formalization, organizations institutionalize internal transfers of knowledge and facilitate routine experience sharing or continuous dialogue (Nonaka 1994). Because formalization ensures a common language and shared information for all members of the organization (Tuli, Kohli, and Bharadwaj 2007), it should lead to a greater understanding of other peopleÕs roles and facilitate interactions of members in dif- ferent groups (Kogut and Zander 1992). In sum, formaliza- tion facilitates cross-functional  communication,  so salespeople should be more likely to benefit from their  internal relations.
H3b: Formalization moderates the relationship of salespeopleÕs internal relations with their value opportunity recognition competence, such that the relationship is stronger when their companiesÕ processes are highly formal.Transformational leadershipTransformational leadership creates awareness and accept- ance of an organizationÕs objectives and goals and encour- ages employees to look beyond their self-interest to achieve those goals (Bass 1990). We propose that managersÕ trans- formational leadership enhances the effects of both customer and internal relations on VOR. Transformational leaders influence their followers by providing intellectual stimula-  tion and articulating a vision (Podsakoff et al. 1990). Intellectual stimulation causes salespeople to reappraise cur- rent situations and question existing  assumptions  (Avolio  and Bass 1988). Because new information informs such reappraisal and questioning, salespeople likely direct more attention to sources such as customers and internal col-  leagues when their managersÕ behavior  is  transformational. In addition, if they are motivated to engage in extra-role behaviors that help realize common goals (MacKenzie, Podsakoff, and Rich 2001), salespeople likely build on their customer and internal relations and proactively focus on the information they gain from those relations to identify cus- tomer problems and potential value-added solutions (MacKenzie, Podsakoff, and Rich 2001).H4: ManagersÕ transformational leadership moderates the relationship of salespeopleÕs (a) customer relations  and  (b) internal relations with their value opportunity recognition competence, such that the relationships are stronger when managersÕ leadership is highly transformational.Performance outcomes of salespeopleÕs VORWe expect that salespeopleÕs VOR is a critical competence that improves selling performance, defined as a salespeopleÕs achievement of quantity and quality sales objectives (Sujan, Weitz, and Kumar 1994). First, VOR reflects salespeopleÕs ability to identify customer requirements accurately and, in turn, create solutions that support the customersÕ businesses. Salespeople with high VOR will likely facilitate the value-in- use of a solution for customers, which should result in increased customer satisfaction (Agnihotri et al. 2014) and selling performance. Second, salespeople scoring high on VOR likely focus on how the solution benefits customers instead of highlighting mere technical details during sales conversations. Consequently, customers should consider the offeringÕs value-in-use potential, rather than just  its  price,  and emerge as less price-sensitive, which ultimately increases potential sales profits. Third, by proactively identifying appropriate solution opportunities for customer problems, salespeople can build barriers to  competitive  actions  (Bonney and Williams 2009; Weitz and Bradford 1999), which strengthens salespeopleÕs bargaining position and per- formance. Fourth, when customers believe that a salesperson understands their needs, they Òvoice tacit needs more readily
and in ways better understood by the  salespersonÓ (Bagozzi  et al. 2012, 642), leading to better dialogues with customers. Because VOR helps enhance the interaction of salespeople with their customers, it should improve their selling per- formance too.H5: There is a positive relationship between salespeopleÕs value opportunity recognition competence and their selling  performance.MethodologyMultilevel data collection and sampleTo test our hypotheses, we conducted a large-scale, cross- industry survey among B2B firms. A list of the 200 largest firms in Finland served as a starting point, from which  we first removed all firms that mainly operated in business-to- consumer markets or nonprofit sectors or that primarily supplied the companies that own them. We then contacted   the senior sales directors (e.g. head of sales, sales director,  vice president of sales) of all B2B firms that offered custom- ized and integrated productÐservice combinations, explained the aim and scope of our research, and asked whether they would be interested in participating. All these firms act internationally, and the sample encompasses business units with diverse operating areas, including Finland, Scandinavia, and Europe. As an incentive for participation, we offered tailored benchmark reports and executive summaries of the results. Ultimately, 29 independent business units agreed to participate.  In each business unit, we surveyed respondents at two hierarchical levels: management and salesperson level. We distributed the different questionnaires to  the  salespeople  and the respective sales manager of each business unit, using  a web-based survey tool. With coded numbers, we matched the responses from salespeople and the sales manager of the same business unit. After three rounds  of  reminders,  the  final matched sample consisted of 799 salespeople (response rate: 69%) from 29 business units, for a mean of 27.6 sales- people per unit. These data  were  matched  with  the  responses of the respective sales manager for each business unit, who answered all questions regarding relevant manage- ment level variables.  The business units represent three industry sectors (infor- mation and communication technology [ICT], materials, and machinery and equipment) and, as noted, operate in different geographical areas (e.g. Finland, Scandinavia, Europe). On average, sales managers reported annual revenues of e756.53 million and 1,321 employees per business unit. The salespeo- pleÕs average tenure with the organization was 11.43 years (SD? 8.93), and their average selling experience was 13.59 years (SD ? 8.88), as shown in Table 2.MeasuresTable 3 summarizes the measures and their psychometric properties. We relied on established scales whenever possible and adapted them to our context. At the management level,
Table 2. Sample composition.Business Units (N ? 29)	Salespeople (N ? 799)Europe
we used four items adapted from Homburg,  Jensen,  and Krohmer (2008) to assess formalization. To measure transform- ational leadership, we used 12 items from the Transformational Leadership Behavior Inventory (MacKenzie,  Podsakoff,  and Rich 2001; Podsakoff et al. 1990) that captured four dimen-  sions: articulating a vision, providing an appropriate model, fostering the acceptance of group goals, and intellectual stimulation.1  At the salesperson level, we captured customer know- ledge, technical knowledge, customer relations, internal rela- tions, VOR, and performance. The customer  knowledge  items were adapted from Rapp et al. (2006),  and the  items  for technical knowledge came from Behrman and Perreault (1982). To measure customer relations and internal relations, we built on work by Palmatier (2008) and John and Weitz  (1989) and captured salespeopleÕs established relationships with relevant stakeholders, within the customersÕ  or  their  own organization, respectively. We developed a new, four- item scale for VOR, in line with our definition and the con- ceptual research on opportunity recognition (Bonney and Williams 2009). Specifically, the indicators reflected sales- peopleÕs ability to identify value creation opportunities in customersÕ business that are then captured by appropriate combinations of goods and services to enhance customersÕ value-in-use. During the scale development phase, we con- firmed the clarity and relevance of the indicators by discus- sing and refining the items with six  practitioners,  who  offered extensive knowledge and experience in the solution
business. The six-item scale for salespeopleÕs selling perform- ance came from Behrman and Perreault (1982). All  items used seven-point scales, with different anchors (see Table 3). In addition to the variables in our theoretical framework, we included several control variables. On the management level, we controlled for the industry in  which the business unit operated. Using Global Industry Classification Standard codes, we classified business units by industry types: ICT, materials, or machinery and equipment, with machinery and equipment as the reference category. At the salesperson level, we controlled for customer-oriented selling, adaptive selling, and selling experience. For customer-oriented selling and adaptive selling, we used short  scales by  Thomas, Soutar, and Ryan (2001) and Robinson et al. (2002). Following Homburg, Wieseke, and Kuehnl (2010), we opera- tionalized selling experience as the salespeopleÕs number ofyears in sales.  All scales indicated strong psychometric properties, in support of the reliability and validity of the measures. The results of a confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) with all measures on the salesperson level revealed composite reli- abilities greater than .85, average variance extracted (AVE) values  greater  than  .53,  and  coefficient  alphas  greater than.85, in excess of the recommended thresholds (Bagozzi and Yi 1988; Table 3). The CFA produced satisfactory fit statis- tics (confirmatory fit and Tucker-Lewis indexes > .9; root mean square error of approximation   .06), in support of   the  predicted  measurement  structure.  We  evaluated  the
cAnchors: 3 (much worse) to 3 (much better).dNot computed due to small sample size on the company level.eManifest construct.Notes: CR ? composite reliability, AVE ? average variance extracted.
Table 4. Correlations, means, and standard deviations.Variables	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13Management Levela1. Formalization	Ðc
2. Transformational leadership (aggregated)
-.03	Ð
3. ICT industry	.63	.08	Ðb4. Materials industry	.16	.30	.17	ÐbSalesperson Level5. Customer knowledge	-.10  	.07 	.00	.06	.86
6. Technical knowledge	-.24  	.067. Customer relations	-.06	.158. Internal relations	-.01	.13
.22	.04	.37	.85.04	.03	.51	.17	.78.06	-.01	.36  	.23  	.53  	.73
9. Value opportunity recognition	-.09 	.13  	.00	.04	.66  	.41  	.53  	.43  	.8010. Selling performance	-.12  	.11  	-.08 	.09 	.38  	.35  	.36  	.29  	.43  	.7611. Customer-oriented selling	-.04	.05	-.01	.08 	.28  	.22  	.36  	.36  	.31  	.22  	.7712. Adaptive selling	-.09 	.18  	-.01	.03	.33  	.17  	.40  	.35  	.44  	.28  	.34  	.8113. Selling experience	-.16  	.09 	-.05	.02	.12  	.07 	.19  	.09 	.17  	.18  	.01	.07 	ÐbMean5.265.23.28.101.481.455.535.661.33.906.315.1613.59Standard deviation1.19.40.45.31.93.99.91.86.82.99.671.068.88N28/78029/79929/79929/799791792793795791782795796786 p < .05, p < .01.aCorrelations are based on scores disaggregated per salesperson.bManifest construct.cNot computed due to small sample size on the company level.Notes: Significance is based on two-tailed tests. The square root of the average variance extracted (AVE) appears on the diagonal.
discriminant validity of the construct measures using the criterion proposed by Fornell and Larcker (1981). For all constructs, the square root of the AVE exceeded the correla- tions between the focal construct and all other constructs in  the study, in support of discriminant validity. Table 4 con- tains the descriptive statistics and correlations.Common method varianceWe used multiple remedies to limit any potential biases  caused by common method variance (CMV). First, in the ex-ante research design, we designed and administered the questionnaire using techniques that lower the risk of CMV (Chang, Van Witteloostuijn, and Eden 2010). For example,  we guaranteed the respondents anonymity and confidential- ity and used different scale endpoints to establish methodo- logical separation (e.g. Podsakoff et al. 2003). Second, we collected data from different sources (sales managers and salespeople), which eliminates the potential influences of respondentsÕ theory-in-use on the underlying relationships (Podsakoff et al. 2003). Third, in the ex-post statistical ana- lysis, we specified a conceptual model that focuses on inter- action effects between focal  constructs.  Compared  with direct effects, interaction effects are far less affected by CMV (Siemsen, Roth, and Oliveira 2010). Fourth, we applied stat- istical remedies. With the single common method factor approach recommended by Podsakoff et  al.  (2003),  we added a latent method factor with all of the measures as indicators to the CFA. Adding the method factor resulted in     a better fit, according to the significant chi-square difference (Dv2(10)  72.3,  p  <  .01).  However,  the  improvement  in the non-normed  fit  index  was  very  small  (D  .001),  and the method factor accounted for  only  a  small  portion (11.6%) of the total variance of the measures, indicating a relatively small magnitude of CMV (Williams, Cote, and Buckley 1989). The factor loadings between the indicators
and original latent variables also remained  significant after  we controlled for CMV. Thus, CMV does not appear to be       a pervasive concern.Analytical approachOur data have a nested structure, in that salespeople  are  nested in business units supervised  by the  sales managers.  To account for it, our analysis relies on multilevel modeling (Raudenbush and Bryk 2002). Multilevel modeling can dis- entangle different sources of variance, such as within-group and between-group variance (Hox, Moerbeek, and Van de Schoot 2010). We thus acknowledge that salespeople within    a particular business unit and supervised  by  a  particular  sales manager might be more similar to one another on our core variables, VOR and selling performance, than  they  would be to salespeople in other groups  (Hofmann  1997). The intraclass coefficients (ICC) and the design effects for VOR and selling performance indicate a meaningful propor- tion of between-group variance relative to total  variance;  they approach or exceed the proposed minimum levels of.05 and 2, in support of our use of multilevel  modeling  (Maas and Hox 2005). To explain observed within- and between-group variance, multilevel modeling supports the investigation of both predictor and moderator variables on different levels, such as the salesperson and management levels. In line with recent suggestions, we group mean-center the predictor variables on the salesperson level,  and  we  grand mean-center the predictor variables on the manage- ment level (Enders and Tofighi 2007).  The multilevel analysis consists of three steps (Wieseke    et al. 2011). First, we built a model that contained all direct effects of the predictor and control variables on the salesper- son and management levels (Table 5, Model 1). Second, to test whether the interaction effects are empirically meaning- ful, we added interactions among the human and social
Table 5. Multilevel analysis of value opportunity recognition antecedents, contingencies, and performance outcomes.Model 1 (Direct effects only)	Model 2 (with SP level interactions)	Model 3 (Full model)
Technical Knowledge ! Value Opportunity Recognition	H1b (?)Internal Relations ! Value Opportunity Recognition	H1d (?)Interaction Effects
.04 
.04 
Technical Knowledge x Internal Relations ! Value Opportunity Recognition	H2b (-)	-.06
.04	-.07 
.04
Customer Relations x Formalization ! Value Opportunity Recognition	H3a (-)	-.04Internal Relations x Formalization ! Value Opportunity Recognition	H3b (?)	.07Customer Relations x Transf. Leadership ! Value Opportunity Recognition	H4a (?)	.11
.02.02.06
Internal Relations x Transf. Leadership	Value Opportunity Recognition	H4b (  )	.11	.12Controlled RelationshipsCustomer Relations ! Customer Knowledge	.44	.06	.43	.06	.43	.06Internal Relations ! Customer Knowledge	.14	.05	.14	.05	.14	.05
Customer Relations ! Technical Knowledge	.06Internal Relations ! Technical Knowledge	.25Customer Knowledge ! Selling performance	.13Technical Knowledge ! Selling performance	.18Customer Relations ! Selling performance	.15Internal Relations ! Selling performance	.08
.04	.06.06	.25  .05	.14  .03	.18  .05	.16  .04	.08 
.04	.06.06	.25  .05	.14  .03	.18  .05	.16  .04	.08 
.04.06.05.03.05.04
Customer-Oriented Selling ! Selling performance	.00	.05	.00	.05	.00	.05
Adaptive Selling ! Selling performance	.04Selling Experience ! Selling performance	.01
.04	.05.00	.01   
.04	.05	.04.00	.01	.00
Formalization	Value Opportunity Recognition	.04Transf. Leadership	Value Opportunity Recognition	.25ICT Industry	Selling performance	.12Materials Industry	Selling performance	.30Model Fit
.03	.04.11	.26.12	.13.06	.30
.03	.04.11	.26.12	.13.06	.30
.03.11.12.06
-2 log-likelihood	6877.35 (31)	6822.42 (33)	6809.50 (39)Increase in model fit	v2(2)?54.93	v2(4)?12.92 Notes: p < .05; p < .01. (Significance is based on one-tailed tests.)
Technical knowledge	.03	.01	.18	.03Customer relations	.04	.01	.16	.05Internal relations	.02	.01	.08	.04 p < .05; p < .01. (Significance is based on one-tailed tests.)
capital variables (Table 5, Model 2). The log-likelihood test confirmed that adding salesperson-level  interactions  improved model fit, in support of our conceptual model (Dv2(2) 54.93, p < .01). Third, we entered the cross-level interactions of the management-level variables (Table 5, Model 3). The log-likelihood test  confirmed  that  adding  both organizational and individual interactions led to the strongest fit, in support of the adequacy of the multilevel investigation and the interaction terms (Dv2(4) 12.92, p< .05).ResultsAll analyses were conducted using the statistical software Mplus  7.0  (Muth'en  and  Muth'en  1998-2012).  Table  5  con- tains the results of the multilevel analysis of VOR antece- dents, contingencies, and performance outcomes. We start with the direct effect hypotheses, before we move on to the interaction hypotheses.Direct effect hypothesesOur model includes four salesperson resources as individual antecedents of VOR. With regard to salespeopleÕs human capital, the final model revealed positive effects of both cus- tomer knowledge and technical knowledge on salespeopleÕs VOR  (customer  b     .40,  p  <  .01;  technical  b .14,  p  <.01). The considerable differences in the effects of the two knowledge types indicated the need for verification; in a post hoc test, we confirmed a significant difference between the two path coefficients, as indicated by a v2 difference test (Dv2(1)	33.99, p < .01). The effect of customer knowledge on VOR thus was significantly stronger than the effect of technical knowledge, reiterating the importance of customer knowledge for value opportunity recognition in B2B mar- kets. With regard to salespeopleÕs social capital, we found positive effects of both customer relations and internal rela- tions on VOR (customer b	.20, p < .01; internal b		.11, p < .01). In line with H1a-d, salespeople can better recognize value opportunities when they possess all types of resources. Regarding the consequences of salespeopleÕs VOR, in sup- port of H5, the final model revealed a significant positive effect of salespeopleÕs VOR on their performance (b	.20, p< .01). When salespeopleÕs ability to recognize value oppor- tunities increases, so does their selling performance.  We also investigated the mediating role of salespeopleÕs VOR in the relationship between salesperson resources and selling performance by modeling the indirect effects of all salesperson resources on selling performance through VOR
while controlling for their direct effects. Applying the boot- strap procedure recommended by Preacher  and  Hayes  (2008), we found significant indirect effects of all salesperson resourcesÑcustomer and technical knowledge and customer and internal relationsÑon  selling  performance  through  VOR (p < .01; see Table 6). We thus confirmed that the performance effects of salespeopleÕs resources are mediated  by their VOR.  Finally, we consider several control variable relationships. First, we allow for direct effects between human and social capital, because social capital may increase human capital (Blyler and Coff 2003; Gonzalez, Claro, and Palmatier 2014). In line with our expectations, salespeopleÕs internal relations enhanced both customer and technical knowledge; customer relations increased only their customer knowledge. Second,  we controlled for the direct effects of the management-level moderators, formalization and transformational leadership; including all components of an interaction term is necessary  to prevent biased estimation results (Irwin and McClelland 2001). Formalization exerted no significant effect on VOR; transformational leadership exhibited a positive effect. Third, when we controlled for the direct effect of salesperson resources on selling performance, we found that all resour-  ces had significant positive effects on performance, in add-  ition to their indirect effects through VOR. Fourth, we controlled for the effects of salespeopleÕs customer-oriented selling, adaptive selling, and selling experience on perform- ance. Both adaptive selling and selling experience enhanced selling performance, too; customer-oriented selling had no effect. These findings are largely consistent with previous sales literature (e.g. Franke and Park 2006). The standar-  dized regression coefficient of VOR on performance (bVOR   .17), compared with the standardized regression coeffi- cients of the control variables (bCustomer-Oriented Selling  .00; bAdaptive    Selling	.05;  bSelling    Experience	.07), revealed the incremental predictive power of VOR.Interaction effect hypothesesOn the salesperson level, we focused on potential interaction effects among human and social capital and uncovered vary- ing results for the different interactions. That is, we found no significant interaction between customer knowledge and customer relations, in contrast with H2a, but the analysis provided empirical support for a negative moderating effect of internal relations on the relationship between technical knowledge and VOR, as suggested in H2b. The latter inter- action effect was significantly negative (b   .07, p < .05).  In turn, in Figure 2, Panel A, we depict the contingent effect
Figure 2. Moderating effects on salespeopleÕs value opportunity recognition.
of technical knowledge on salespeopleÕs VOR for different levels of internal relations, together with its confidence interval, according to a spotlight analysis (Johnson and Neyman 1936). As this figure shows, salespeopleÕs technical knowledge becomes less important for their VOR when their internal relations are strong, rather than weak. If salespeople have extensive internal relations ( 1.5 standard deviations above the mean), the effect of technical knowledge on VOR even becomes insignificant.On the management level, we found support for the pre-dicted moderating effects of formalization. It weakened the relationship between customer relations and VOR (H3a), according to the significant negative interaction of customer relations and formalization (b .04, p < .05), and it strengthened the relationship of internal relations and VOR (H3b), according to the significant positive interaction of internal relations and formalization (b .07, p < .05). A spotlight analysis reveals the contingent effects of customer and internal relations across levels of formalization (Figure 2, Panels B and C). Formalization buffers the positive effect of customer relations on VOR, such that its effectiveness decreases with increasing formalization, until it disappears at very high levels of formalization ( 2 standard deviations above the mean). Yet formalization amplifies the positive effect of internal relations on VOR once it reaches a moder- ate level ( .5 standard deviations above the mean).In support of H4a, transformational leadership strength-ened the relationship between customer relations and VOR,
according to the significant positive interaction effect of cus- tomer  relations  and  transformational  leadership  on  VOR (b  .11, p < .05). However, we cannot confirm H4b, because the interaction effect of internal relations and transform- ational leadership on VOR was not significant (b       .11, p> .05). Figure 2, Panel D, illustrates the contingent effect of customer relations at different levels of transformational leadership: Customer relations exert a stronger effect on salespeopleÕs VOR when managersÕ transformational leader- ship is high rather than low, but the effect of internal rela- tions remained constant, regardless of the level of transformational leadership.DiscussionPrior studies in sales and solution research highlight the  overall importance of salespeople for solution selling per- formance (Panagopoulos, Rapp, and Ogilvie 2017), while at the same time offer limited insights on what is required by salespeople and sales managers to successfully sell solutions in B2B markets (Plouffe, Williams, and Wachner 2008). Therefore, we investigate critical resources and work envir- onment characteristics that advance salespeopleÕs VOR and also probe its relevance for selling performance. Our study complements and extends prior research on solution selling   in business markets, with several theoretical and managerial contributions.
Theoretical contributionsFirst, we extend insights into the critical competencies of effective solution selling in business markets, by offering empirical evidence of a positive link between VOR and sell- ing performance above and beyond traditional selling con- cepts, i.e. adaptive selling and customer-oriented selling. Although extant sales research provides profound evidence regarding which salesperson competencies and behaviors drive performance (Verbeke, Dietz, and Verwaal 2011),  recent studies propose that the change toward a service-cen- tered view of exchange inherent to solution selling imposes additional demands on frontline employees (Hartmann, Wieland, and Vargo 2018; Sheth and Sharma  2008;  Ulaga and Loveland 2014). Accordingly, our findings respond to recent calls for more research on the specific competencies required to implement a service-centered view of exchange and effectively co-create value with  the  customer  (Blocker  et al. 2012; Evans et al. 2012). Our research further supports   a more granular view of the solution selling process in B2B markets (Panagopoulos, Rapp, and Ogilvie 2017), by focus- ing on a salesperson competence that becomes relevant dur- ing the critical early stages of solution selling.  Second, our research provides a finer-grained view of the requirements of solution selling at the individual salesperson level. We underscore the importance of salespeopleÕs human capital. Their VOR is driven by both technical knowledge about the firmÕs goods and services and deep knowledge of customersÕ business processes. Technical knowledge has long been established as an important salesperson resource, but knowledge about customersÕ business models,  operations,  and key performance indicators has not received the  same level of attention, despite some  attempts  to  conceptualize and measure general customer knowledge (e.g. Verbeke, Dietz, and Verwaal 2011). Our results highlight  a  central  role of deep customer knowledge, which emerges as the strongest driver of VOR. Because the impact of customer knowledge on VOR is significantly stronger than that of technical knowledge, a deep understanding of customersÕ business provides a key antecedent of the ability to recog-  nize value opportunities in solution selling. Second, our  results highlight the need for salespeople to establish and maintain relations with key stakeholders in both the custom- erÕs and their own company. This study  thus  responds  to  calls to investigate the effects of network-related variables on selling performance (Verbeke, Dietz, and Verwaal 2011).Beyond  the  direct  effects  of  salesperson  resources  onVOR and performance, we show that other peopleÕs know-  ledge can substitute for individual knowledge, at least  to some degree. While most researchers agree that human cap- ital and social capital are not independent from each other (Hargadon and Sutton 1997), empirical results on how the different resources influence each other are mixed. For example, Boxman, De Graaf, and Flap (1991) reveal decreas- ing returns on human capital for managers with larger social capital, thereby supporting a substitution effect. In contrast, Burt (1997) proposes a synergistic effect, in that larger social capital leads to higher returns on human capital. We extend this  research  by  showing  that  the  effect  varies  with  the
specific resources under investigation. In particular, we dem- onstrate that salespeople can partly substitute for technical knowledge by gathering pertinent knowledge from internal relations with relevant specialists. Yet, we did not find a similar effect for customer knowledge. Strong relations with relevant customer stakeholders cannot substitute for sales- peopleÕs own deep insights about customersÕ business mod-  els and operations. To better account for these  varying  effects, future research should pay more attention to the spe- cific resources under study and differentiate among key lev- ers of salesperson capital.Finally, VOR does not just result from salespersonresources but also depends on work environment character- istics. Formalization is a double-edged sword, with both positive and negative effects. It attenuates the positive rela- tionship between customer relations and VOR, because it hinders creativity, open-minded thinking, and learning of novel knowledge (Agnihotri et al. 2014; Daft and Lengel  1986; Nonaka 1994). But it also helps salespeople leverage their internal relations more effectively to identify value cre- ation opportunities, by clarifying organizational roles and promoting effective knowledge transfers among relevant spe- cialists within the firm.  Transformational leadership instead  is consistently advantageous, in that it both increases VOR directly and strengthens the impact of customer relations on VOR. Transformational leadership provides intellectual stimu- lation that fosters VOR and encourages salespeople to focus  on their customer relations as valuable sources of information for identifying value creation opportunities and crafting effective solutions to customersÕ problems (MacKenzie, Podsakoff, and Rich 2001; Martin and Bush 2006).Managerial contributionsSome of the insights for managers that stem from our find- ings challenge conventional wisdom. For example, for sales force selection, our findings prompt questions about some commonly adopted managerial practices, such as the ten- dency of B2B firms to hire technical experts (e.g. trained engineers) into sales functions, to deal with the growing complexity of goods and technologies. Darr (2006) notes a doubled percentage of engineers in the sales force. Especially when it comes to customer solutions, manufacturers also  might move technical experts from a service technician role  or after-sales service function into a sales position. According to our exploratory interviews, the material handling equip- ment manufacturer Linde exclusively hired services and solu- tion salespeople from its pool of more than 2,400 European service technicians. But our results instead underscore the importance of salespeopleÕs customer knowledge, suggesting that companies might want to seek employees with a good understanding of customersÕ businesses, instead of primarily recruiting technical experts, such as by hiring customer industry experts into existing sales organizations. The indus- trial and medical gas supplier Air Liquide hired experts with deep knowledge in diverse customer applications, such as automotive welding or food packaging, and teamed  them  with generalist salespeople in its efforts to grow solution sales
in these two industry segments. Our results indicate the suit- ability of such an approach.  Managers also should actively screen applicantsÕ ability to effectively build and maintain interpersonal relations. In general, our findings highlight the importance of nurturing personal relations and accumulating a knowledge base that extends beyond what any individual salesperson could main- tain. We thereby substantiate Verbeke, Dietz, and VerwaalÕs (2011, 422) argument that salespeople increasingly must act  as Òknowledge brokersÓ in complex business situations, in contrast with a more traditional view of salespeople as  ÒlonersÓ (Weitz and Bradford 1999, 250). Salespeople ideally should be endowed with strong existing relations with rele- vant actors from customer organizations; an ideal candidate would have dealt with several customer firms  and  have  access to people from different hierarchical levels in those firms (Weitz and Bradford 1999). Furthermore, they should already possess or feel comfortable to build personal rela- tions with various departments of the hiring firm to gain necessary support from relevant specialists. These internal relations are especially important when salespeople lack spe- cialized technical knowledge, because the presence of these relations enables them to rely on their partnersÕ knowledge. With regard to the organization of solution selling, these results further indicate the need to build a customer centric front-end sales organization, supported by a back-end organization with deep technical expertise (Davies, Brady,  and Hobday 2006).Our results also offer important insights for sales forcetraining. Firms can expand salespeopleÕs human and social capital with training. When it comes to human capital, it is most likely that industrial salespeople already possess a sub- stantial amount of technical knowledge, but might need training in how to develop customer knowledge (Verbeke, Dietz, and Verwaal 2011). Hence, B2B firms must be ready   to invest in new training content beyond obvious areas such   as technological, operational, and market developments, i.e. content that allows salespeople to gain deeper insights into customersÕ business models and discuss Ôreturn on invest- mentÕ eye to eye with key decision-makers. To enhance salespeopleÕs social capital, employees should be trained in how to communicate with Òunusual suspectsÓ, such as col- leagues from different departments or customer stakeholders from different hierarchical levels. For example, firms could institutionalize cross-functional activities and events that fos- ter communication and networking among people from dif- ferent departments, e.g. salespeople, technicians, engineers. Moreover, salespeople must learn how to involve in deeper  conversations with stakeholders located higher in the cus- tomerÕs hierarchy.  Our findings also provide important insights regarding the design of work environments to enable VOR. Transformational leadership effectively promotes VOR among salespeople, by inspiring them to find new value creation opportunities and pushing them to focus on information gathered from their cus- tomer relations. When assigning managers to the task of trans- forming the sales force from a product to  a  solution  focus,  firms would be well advised to favor those with strong
transformational leadership skills. Not every manager can translate the companyÕs solution focus into appropriate  guid- ance for salespeople. For example, in one company we inter- viewed in preparation for our research, the  national  sales director understood the new strategy of focusing on customer solutions rather than selling goods and services,  but  about  a  year into the transformation process, he resigned. Comfortable   in a traditional equipment sales setting, he worried  he  lacked  the right profile to lead the sales force in crafting and commer- cializing customer solutions.  Moreover, firms should consider their formalization prac- tices carefully, depending on what type of informationÑexter- nal or internalÑis more critical for identifying valuable solution opportunities. If external information from custom- ers is key (i.e., customer-pull scenarios), firms should avoid highly formalized sales processes, which hinder salespeople from recognizing opportunity-relevant signals or learning  what customers might value. However, if internal information is more critical (i.e., technology-push scenarios), firms can establish more formalized sales processes to help salespeople efficiently leverage their internal relationsÑparticularly if the organizational structures are highly diversified, and relevant specialists are spread across various departments.Limitations and further researchThis study is subject to several limitations that offer fruitful areas for research. First, we examined VOR from the suppli- erÕs perspective and provided insights into  the  antecedents and contingencies of salespeopleÕs VOR. Future research could also consider the customer perspective on salesper- sonÕs VOR (Friend and Malshe 2016; Macdonald, Kleinaltenkamp, and Wilson 2016). Additional studies might investigate customersÕ contributions to value opportunity recognition too (Schaarschmidt, Walsh, and Evanschitzky 2018), or contrast salesperson and customer perspectives on effective value opportunity recognition.  Second, to capture salespeopleÕs customer and internal relations, we asked salespeople to rate the extent to which  they had access to the relevant actors from  customer  and  their own organizations, which creates a focus on one spe- cific characteristic of social networks.  Further  research should study the relative importance of other network char- acteristics, such as density,  brokerage,  or  centrality (Bolander et al. 2015; Gonzalez, Claro, and Palmatier 2014), as well as investigate salespeopleÕs network structures using social network analyses (Verbeke, Dietz, and Verwaal 2011). Building on our framework of the basic  mechanisms  of VOR, network analyses may offer a valuable next step for investigating the effects of specific network characteristics in more detail.Third,  we  identify  means  to  develop  human  and  socialcapital as a promising area for future research. In  our research, we focus on the antecedents, contingencies, and performance outcomes of VOR. We do not refer to the question how salespeople obtain or  build  required  human and social capital. Further research should  investigate  the  role  of  individual  characteristics  or  skills  that  facilitate the
accumulation of social and human capital, such as emotional intelligence (e.g. Kidwell et al. 2011) or political skills (e.g. Bolander et al. 2015).  Finally, further studies should address the outcomes of VOR in greater detail. We show that it produces positive results, beyond what salespeople usually achieve on the basis of their existing knowledge, sales behaviors, and  experience. It also would be worthwhile to investigate the mechanisms underlying positive outcomes of VOR. For example, explor- ing the possible mediating role of different customer reac- tions (e.g. willingness to pay, perceived attractiveness of competitive offers) in the VORÐperformance  relationship may be an interesting research avenue.  Our study explores the relevance of different antecedents and contingencies of VOR and investigates its effect on sell- ing performance in B2B markets. We hope that the insights resulting from this study encourage further research in this important area.Note1. The aggregated measure of  transformational  leadership, using data from salespeople, reflects their shared beliefs  about the behavior of the sales manager  for  that  business unit (Herold et al. 2008). We  averaged  individual assessments of all salespeople from the same business unit (Herold et al. 2008). The intra-class correlation coefficients empirically justified this data aggregation.
